Descriptive statistics can be summarized in 2 ways
1. Central Tendency - where is the concentation of the data.
    mean - population mean and sample mean.
        sensitive to outliers.
    median - value at the center of the sample, not sensitive to outliers.
    mode - most common value in the sample, useful for categorial data.
2. Spread/Dispersion - how far apart the data are.
    range - max(sample) - min(sample)
        sensitive to outliers. not descriptive to show how the samples relate to the centroid.
    mean-based
        variance
            average squared distance from the mean. sigma squared is the population variance, s^2 is the sample variance.
            when calculating for the s^2, use n-1 as the divisor (bessel's correction).
        standard deviation
            square root of variance.
        coefficient of variance  - CV
            compare dispersion of one data set to another
    median based
        IQR - Inter Quantile Range 
            IQR = Q3-Q1, measure of data concentration around the median
        Quartile Coeffient of Dispersion    
            similar to CV

Histogram
    for discrete data set 
KDE - Kernel Density Estimates 
    for continous data set 
    estimate of PDF (Probability Density Function)
CDF - Cumulative Density Function
    P(X <= x) 

Distribution Types

Gaussian/Normal
    - if mean=0 and sd=1, its standard normal (Z) Distribution
Poisson
    - discrete distribution, use to model arrivals
    Exponential
        - time between arrivals
    both defined by their mean, lambda.
Uniform
    -equal Probability on each value within its bounds.
    bernoulli trial - generate random number to simulate a pass/fail. When run multiple times, it becomes binomial.

Normalization
min-max - range of 0-1
z-score - value refers to standard deviation from the mean. For example, a zscore of -0.5 mean its 0.5SD below the mean.

Covariance
    relationship between variables - how one variable changes with the other variable.
    E[X] - expectation of X or Expected value of X. 
        weighted average of all possible values, weighted by the probabily of occurence.
        Sum(possible value * probability of the possible value) 
Pearson-Correlation
    r^2 could be misleading. It might a strong correlation, but it could be logarithmmic, or exponential, or intermediatary, or just coincidence.
    !!!Plot and visually inspect data.
Time-Series
    predicting future values base on past values.
    before modelling a time series, it has to be decomposed into its component - trend, seasonal, cyclical(noise)
    most common methods used AR(auto regressive) I(integrated) MA(moving average)
    Auto regressive 
        value at t1 is correlated to value at t0.
    Integrated  
        concerned with delta between t1 and t0.
    Moving average
        average of a sliding window. All previous values have equal weight. To add more weight to recent data, use exponential averaging.  

Confidence Level
    The probability that the value will fall between the limits(upper/lower bound) of the confidence interval. Most common value used is 95%.
    The higher the confidence level, the wider the confidence interval.
Confidence interval
    CI = mean +/-  z-statistic*(std. dev/sqrt(n))
    z-statistic, or alpha-value, commonly used is 5%
Hypothesis testing
    Significance level = 1-Confidence Level
    Test whether a certain population parameter is gt/lt/ne at a certain significance level
    Ho (null hypthesis) - accepted value. 
    H1 (alternate hypthesis) 
    To reject the Ho means the accepted value is not true, and H1 is true. 